Statuss: spēkā esošs
This Agreement is made between the Government of the Republic of Malta and the Government of the Republic of Latvia, hereinafter referred to as the Parties.
The Parties acknowledge that it is in their mutual interest to develop relations and co-operation between their respective countries in the field of tourism and to provide an adequate legal framework for this partnership.
The Parties hereby agree as follows:
Article 1
The Parties will strive to strengthen and develop co-operation between the tourist industries of the two countries in order to promote a better understanding of the society, history and culture.
Co-operation will be implemented in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the laws and regulations that are in effect in the two countries.
Article 2
The Parties are in favour of closer co-operation between their administrative authorities and tourism organisations as well as between other organisations participating in the development of international and domestic tourism.
Article 3
The Parties shall, subject to their laws and regulations in force, simplify travelling formalities for the purpose of reinforcing the tourism traffic between the two countries.
Article 4
The Parties shall facilitate the exchange of tourist information in order to promote tourist traffic, namely by means of publicity, conferences and seminars, information and advertising, exchange of printed material, films and expositions, organisation of exhibitions and trade fairs.
Article 5
The Parties shall co-operate to assist in education, training and exchange of experts, personnel and students in the tourism sector. The Parties shall assist both public and private organisations, to carry out different tourist development studies and projects.
Article 6
The Parties shall exchange information about legislation, experience and data through their appropriate administrative authorities concerning tourism as well as regarding their activities in international tourism organisations.
Article 7
The Parties, in order to co-operate more efficiently, shall assist each other in the establishment of national tourism offices in both countries.
Article 8
To enhance the implementation of this Agreement, a Joint Tourism Committee shall be established comprising tourism officials from both countries, with the aim to carry out joint proposals, programs and resolutions concerning the development of bilateral co-operation in the field of tourism.
The Committee shall meet once a year, alternately in the Republic of Malta and the Republic of Latvia.
The Parties may invite experts and representatives of the private sector from both countries to participate in the activities of the Committee.
Article 9
The Parties have agreed that the responsibility for the implementation of this Agreement shall be born by the following state authorities:
The Ministry responsible for Tourism on behalf of the Republic of Malta,
The Cabinet of Ministers on behalf of the Republic of Latvia.
Article 10
Neither Party will accept any responsibility or liability as to how the results of the co-operation under this Agreement are applied or used by the counterpart.
Article 11
This Agreement may be amended by the Parties only if in writing and signed by both Parties.
Article 12
If a dispute arises between the Parties about the interpretation or application of this Agreement, they shall seek a solution by negotiations or by any other method of dispute settlement acceptable to the Parties.
Article 13
This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of exchanging notes indicating completion of legal procedures by the Parties. This Agreement shall be valid for a period of five years and shall be automatically extended for another period of five years unless either Party informs the other Party in writing of its desire to terminate this Agreement six months before the expiry date of the Agreement.
Done at Riga on October 15, 1999 in two original copies in English and Latvian languages all texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail.
 
For the Government of the Republic of Latvia Vents Balodis Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development
For the Government of the Republic of Malta Joseph Borg Minister of Foreign Affairs
 
Saskaņā ar Ārlietu ministrijas informāciju ("Latvijas Vēstnesis", 10.01.2000., Nr.7) nolīgums stājās spēkā 1999.gada 17.decembrī.
Agreement On Co-Operation In The Field Of Tourism Between The Government Of The Republic Of Malta And The Government Of The Republic Of Latvia
